---
layout: post
title:  "Cohiba Behike #56"
date:   2014-08-24 10:32:11
author: Thomas
img: cigars/behike56.jpg
grades:
  -
    name: Comfort
    points: 97
  -
    name: Flavor
    points: 95
  -
    name: Overall
    points: 96
    class: progress-bar-warning
---



#Introduction

The Behike 56 is probably one of the best cigars out there. It's definitely in the higher ends of cuban cigars. It's in fact so well-known that to uphold its reputation only the best rollers in each factory are actually tasked with rolling this incredible stick. That makes it less likely for you to get a bad one, and in fact when I chose this cigar the choice was easy, all the Behikes were almost veinless and without a single bump. This was also until a few years ago the most expensive cigar in the world. Its blend is composed with "medio tiempo" leaves, those are very scarce and they only grow on the top of tobacco sun-flower which gives them a lot of sun exposure. 
To be honest, this is THE cigar. It sets the standard for the rest. A beautiful sunny shining brown colored Habanos. It's a stick of perfection made with almost no defaults.

#Tasting
I delicately punch the cigar before lighting it up. Taking my time with long and slow puffs. It's immediately enjoyable. 
The first third of the cigar is very characteristic of Cohiba's. It's earthy and musty caramel. It's also a bit spicy. The amazing patience and care put into the cigar is smellable. The burn is absolutely perfect. The smoke has a perfect smell that makes you want to puff more. Needless to say the beginning of this journey is highly enjoyable. 
The second third was the my favorite part of this heavenly Habanos. The puff started to be floral, sweet, maple syrup like then in the same puff it would finish by transitioning to become earthy and spicy, highly addictive. 
Sitting the smoke between puffs is another way to enjoy this cigar. The smell is incredible and you'll feel even more the love and aging put into the making of your Behike.
The last third was back to the caramel earthiness of the first third. Taking my time to enjoy this piece of art.

#Conclusion

This is a hell of a long smoke, it took me a bit more than two hours to complete it. Even though it felt like time was standing still. The Behike is still not my favorite cigar but it's in my top 3. You simply cannot go wrong with this cigar. You also have to take your time, to be delicate in the way you handle it because after all a lot of skilled, time and love is being represented by the majestic behike. 

#Score