---
layout: post
title:  "Époisses"
date:   2014-07-01 10:32:11
author: Thomas
img: cheese/epoisse.jpg
grades:
  -
    name: Smell
    points: 96
  -
    name: Consistence
    points: 95
  -
    name: Overall
    points: 95
    class: progress-bar-warning
---



#Introduction

Époisse is a memorable cheese, once you’ve tried it you won’t forget it. It’s basically the epitome of burgundy character. 
The Époisse is my favorite cheese, it’s strong and keeps a soft side. It’s of course well known to us cheesemongers. Nonetheless I think it represents a fantastic and original introduction to the magical world of cheeses. At least for the beginners out there. 
First of all let me tell you that I love strong smell in cheeses. As they say the smellier the better. Let’s just that I wasn’t disappointed, Époisse is one of the strongest smelling cheese I’ve ever experienced.


To give you an idea of how powerful it is whenever you open your fridge the smell will fill your whole house. Of course this makes me crave for it! The Époisse gets its flavor from weekly baths in Marc de Bourgogne which gives the cheese an enjoyable palate. It’s made from cows' milk, of course the only version you should consider buying is the unpasteurized one. Ssorry if you live in the U.S.


I would like to add the Époisse is naturally very creamy ( well if you bought a good one ). I still choose to take it out of the fridge at least an hour before I taste it. If you do this your cheese will breath a bit and oxygenize before you eat it. It will also make it so creamy that it’s feels almost like melted butter ( which I love ).

#Tasting
Once you feel your cheese is ready I would advice that you equip yourself with some quality bread and a bottle of burgundy wine. For the wine you have a few options. If you are leaning towards a white I would go with a well rounded powerful one like Puligny-Montrachet. I am personally going for a red wine, very tannic, full bodied and of course burgundy. I usually go with Aloxe-Corton or Pommard.
On to the tasting.


There are many ways to fully enjoy such a powerful delicacy. I start by having some on the bread, washing it down with some wine. The cheese is extremely intense. The creamy inside is combined with the Marc de bourgogne flavored crust. This is a marvelous association between overwhelming strength and subtle liquorish flavor. 


It’s a complex cheese, sticky and stinky, one taste and you couldn’t get enough.

#Score