---
layout: post
title:  "Caol Ila 12 Years"
date:   2014-06-26 10:32:11
author: Aristide
img: whisky/caolila12.jpg
grades:
  -
    name: Nose
    points: 87
  -
    name: Palate
    points: 84
  -
    name: Finish
    points: 84
  -
    name: Overall
    points: 85
    class: progress-bar-warning
---



#Introduction

In this article I won't tell you if this single malt has a lemon taste ( which he partially does ), I won’t go into the technicalities. instead I'll tell you how I felt while tasting it. Indeed I think a huge part, perhaps the most important part, of enjoying a good single malt is the feeling, the experience, the memories it can give you. And let me tell you this : This beverage is a worthy Islay, to say the least.

I remember this as clearly as yesterday. I was with my fellow drinking partner Thomas on the day I first tasted it. It felt cold and wet like we were experiencing the real Scottish weather. This set the base line for the emotions of the degustation.

#Nose

As I was uncorking the bottle, we silentely enjoyed the peat smoked smell released from it.
We poured a glass.

The smell remains, more intense, even more refined. A mix of harshness and subtlety. 
Harshness of the territory, the landscapes, the shores, the sea, the men of the islands.

Subtility of the balance between the peat smoke and the citrus. 

Clearly, you have to take your time to appreciate this smell. 

#Palate 

After we excited our taste buds, time has come for the first gulp. 

 To begin with, I felt the sea. A wave. A bit salty, some really fine seaweed. I was in an Islays' shore.

Just a second later, the peated smoke came. Powerful, intense nonetheless as refined as my first impression.



#Finish

You can have a good picture of the aftermath of a glass of Caol Ila 12 years by thinking about a peat field whipped by a iodine wind at the beginning of a storm.
The Caol Ila 12 years merges two effects together : dry and smoked, harsh and subtle.
Because of this, even unexperienced whisky tasters or first timers will enjoy it.

#Color
Light gold


#Summary 

In my opinion, this whisky is a great one. It can fit with people who likes both smoked and non smoked single malts.

The Caol Ila is perfect to initiate somebody to single malts, it has an excellent balance between power and softness.


Most Similar To: Talisker Storm.

Buy Again? Definitely.

#Score
