---
layout: post
title:  "Lagavulin 16 Years"
date:   2014-07-19 10:32:11
author: Thomas
img: whisky/lagavulin.jpg
grades:
  -
    name: Nose
    points: 93
  -
    name: Palate
    points: 94
  -
    name: Finish
    points: 90
  -
    name: Overall
    points: 93
    class: progress-bar-warning
---



#Introduction

The Lagavulin.. What a perfect scotch.  This holds a great sentimental value to me because that’s how I got into the world of malts.The Lagavulin is smooth, it’s soft and it’s smoky. It’s a delicious beverage that represents a great introduction to whiskies.  Most people have tasted cheap bourbon or blended whiskies and when they try the Lagavulin the contrast is so strong it’s like receiving a slap in the face. You wake up from a bad dream and you understand how delicious a good glass of scotch can be.

#Nose


Opening the bottle and before having a glass. The dominant smell is of smoked oak, literally you can think that you’re in a forest surrounded with big healthy trees and you’re making a camp fire out of oak wood. It’s by far the most subtle and best smoked wood from all the malts I’ve tested. 
The other predominant smell is iodine. Marvelous iodine that comes and adds the water component to the picture.

The glass smell keeps the water-mouthing smoked oak which is even softer, more mellow. It also adds sugar that contrasts really well with the oak/iodine combination.

Once you’ve had the first glass you can get some different impressions. To me it seemed a bit more floral, vanilla-ish.

#Palate 


Things are getting serious. That’s where the Lagavulin really differentiates itself from other scotchs. It begins by a blank, you’ve just had your first sip and .. nothing. Think of this as the calm before the storm. You’re standing there on top of the castle tower looking at the horizon, nothing moves you’re waiting for what you know is coming. That’s exactly what the first second of the palate is like.  The taste is so soft it’s barely noticeable, I would be inclined to say it’s almost a water diluted coco milk taste but I’ve been told I’m wrong.

Then the taste starts to slowly build up, like smoke in a chimney, the taste rises progressively. Remember the smoked oak smell ? Well that’s where it makes an appearance and it’s as delicious as it smelled. 

Just when you think the palate is ending, in that fleeting moment before the gulp comes a strange sugary impression, the smoked oak turns into light white chocolate. That is for me the apex of the Lagavulin right there. Simply wonderful.

After a glass I could also get a bit of spice.

The characteristic Islay peat comes next. 

#Finish

Smooth and well rounded, very long vanilla finish, of couse and as always surrounded with the smoked oak wood. The finish slowly brings you back to reality. 


#Color
Bronze and copper.

#Summary 


The Lagavulin is in my top 3 scotchs. It has everything, peated, smoked and savory but in a very unique way. This is the malt you need for a one way ticket to Islay. Well balanced without a bite it’s perfectly suited whether you’re beginning in the whisky world or not. The only setback is the finish that could have been more complex especially when you compare it to the Palate or the Nose. 
I’m giving the Lagavulin a lower grade than the Ardbeg Uigeadail just because the Uigeadail is more peated and has an assemblage of flavors that I prefer. Overall this is without a doubt a legendary scotch.
I would associate this godly beverage to Autumn, it's oak, fireplace and sugary so it somehow reminds me of that time of the year.

#Score
